[Internal][Obs UX Management][9.x & Serverless]: Note filter limitation for metric threshold rules (#3702)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/observability/incident-management/create-metric-threshold-rule.md

The **Filters** control the scope of the rule. If used, the rule will only evaluate metric data that matches the query in this field. In this example, the rule will only alert on metrics reported from a Cloud region called `us-east`.

::::{note}

> Filters that you've added to the rule using the [create rule API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/operation/operation-post-alerting-rule-id) won't appear in the UI when you're editing a rule. If you want to modify these filters, you must manually re-add them by entering a KQL query in the rule's **Filter** field.

Reviewer: Same sentiment regarding the workaround I noted [here](https://github.com/elastic/observability-docs/pull/4961#discussion_r2474368134).

> Filters that you've added to the rule using the [create rule API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/operation/operation-post-alerting-rule-id) won't appear in the UI when you're editing a rule. If you want to modify these filters, you must manually re-add them by entering a KQL query in the rule's **Filter** field.

Author: ```suggestion
If you've made a rule with the [create rule API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/operation/operation-post-alerting-rule-id) and added Query DSL filters using the `filterQuery` parameter, the filters won't appear in the UI for editing a rule. As a workaround, manually re-add the filters through the UI and save the rule. As you're modifying the rule's filters from the UI, be mindful of the following:

- The **Filter** field only accepts KQL syntax, meaning you may need to manually convert your Query DSL filters to KQL. 
- After you save the rule, filters you've added to the **Filter** field are converted appropriately and specified in the rule's `filterQuery` parameter.  
```
